Beta Bequin continues her investigation of the ancient city Queen Mab. Torn between the warring Inquisitors Gregor Eisenhorn and Gideon Ravenor, Bequin finds herself questioning everything. But she is not the only one digging into Queen Mab&#8217;s secrets. . .
Dan Abnett&#8217;s Penitent has to be one of the most anticipated releases in Black Library&#8217;s long history. The second Bequin novel has been gestating for the best part of a decade, to the point that Abnett even went back and released another Eisenhorn novel in between volumes of the Bequin trilogy. The 2021 Black Library Celebration saw Penitent&#8216;s release after nine long years of waiting. As a reader only just getting back into the literature of the forty-first millennium, I did not have to endure nine years of waiting. In fact, it wasn&#8217;t even nine days. But still the question remained: How would the book hold up with such a long gap between releases? Could it possibly live up to the hype generated by legions of fans?
Put simply, yes. yes it absolutely can. Maybe it&#8217;s because I didn&#8217;t have that wait, but Penitent reads as if there has been no gap between books. Those nine years are reflected in the page as a mere two months, and after a brief and well-handled recap, we are thrown straight back into the murky tangle of conspiracies that Abnett&#8217;s readers have come to know and love. The flow between the two books would be impressive on any release schedule, but to so effortlessly bridge a near-decade shows just how good Abnett is at what he does. This is a man at the peak of his craft, and Penitent is easily up there with the best of Black Library&#8217;s output.
Penitent is a book that hits the ground running and throws wonder at the reader with unceasing glee. There is so much going on here that I couldn&#8217;t begin to cover it all. Abnett mines the world of Warhammer 40,000 for all it is worth, turning up all manner of gems in the process. Though it&#8217;s evidently the product of decades of storytelling, I dare say fans of anything the grim, dark future has in store will be appeased by this blood-soaked offering. The presence of Inquisition, Traitor Space Marines, heretics and the like are expected, though not always in the form they take here, but surprises abound as it becomes clear just how high the stakes are in this book. There are revelations held within these pages that could change not just the Bequin series, but the entirety of the forty-first millennium. Secrets pour out right up until the very final line, and this is one the dedicated fan will not want to miss.
Penitent, and the Bequin trilogy, is a testament to the great storytelling that can come from the unfairly maligned realm of tie-in fiction. This isn&#8217;t just a good Warhammer 40,000 book, it&#8217;s a good book. Full stop. Hopefully the final instalment in Abnett&#8217;s magnum opus releases before another nine years elapse, because I for one cannot wait to see where this goes next.
[&#8230;] however. As we&#8217;ve seen in recent reviews, the Warhammer 40,000 setting is evolving with each new book. But this wasn&#8217;t always the case. Back in the early days of Warhammer literature, the focus [&#8230;]
#########
I am a huge fan of Dan Abnett&#8217;s Eisenhorn and Ravenor trilogy. They were my introduction to the Warhammer 40K universe alongside the Gaunt&#8217;s Ghosts series. Both trilogies were fantastic lower-level stories about the mysterious side of the Warhammer 40K universe. Following Inquisitors, we got to see them go through the society of the Imperium as well as how heresy rots the empire from within rather than seeing big epic battles between armies. My favorite character from the trilogies was Alizabeth Bequin, a Pariah or Anti-Psyker who seemed to be the only sane person in the armed bands of fanatics.
There was meant to be a third part of the trilogy of trilogies called Eisenhorn vs. Ravenor but that was retooled into the Bequin trilogy. Not, surprisingly, after the character herself but her seeming daughter in Beta Bequin. This would come as a great surprise to most readers as Bequin was in no condition to have children the last time we left her. It&#8217;s also an immense shift for most readers of Warhammer 40K since there are very few female protagonists in the franchise, aside from the Sisters of Battle, let alone who have coming of age dramas.
Pariah’s premise is Beta is living in a decaying French-themed Imperial World called Queen Mab. She is being seemingly trained as a member of the Inquisition when her school ends up infiltrated then raided by people claiming to be the Inquisition. Fleeing into the city, Beta finds herself protected by a mysterious man claiming to be a religious assassin as well as multiple figures that longtime readers will figure out the identities of long before Beta herself. There&#8217;s no telling who she can trust or what is going on even as she struggles to unravel the secrets of Queen Mab.
Honestly, I think Pariah is the best of the series, which is high praise since I loved all of them. Beta is a great contrast to the other protagonists, being a slightly snobbish and erudite young woman that looks down on most individuals in Queen Mab. It&#8217;s always fun when she finds so much of what she thought of the universe was incorrect. Pariah also does a magnificent job of bringing to life its decaying setting with its Dune-like cathedral, dangerous alleyways, and heretical artist communes.
If you must purchase the book in either text or audible format, I&#8217;d like to recommend the book&#8217;s audiobook version. Helen Keeley is a fantastic audiobook narrator and does a great job making Beta likable even when she&#8217;s looking down on her supposed friends or refusing to trust the people that are trying to protect her (or at least claim to be doing so). If you like audiobooks then I think this is one of the better ones for listening to.
In conclusion, Pariah is a fantastic book and one that I strongly recommend for both Warhammer 40K fans as well as those who are not into it. While it is the third trilogy in a series, I also think that newcomers to the franchise will find it to be a pretty good entrance point. Bequin is a woman familiar with the world but not so much that she doesn&#8217;t serve as a good guide to the mysterious grimdark future where there is only war.
CT Phippshttps://ctphipps.wordpress.com/C.T Phipps is a lifelong student of horror, science fiction, and fantasy. An avid tabletop gamer, he discovered this passion led him to write and turned him into a lifelong geek. He's the author of Agent G, Cthulhu Armageddon, Lucifer's Star, Straight Outta Fangton, and The Supervillainy Saga. He is also a frequent contributor to Grimdark Magazine.
Get the inside scoop on everything dark fantasy, sci-fi, and horror, plus a free magazine issue! Join our mailing list to turn your inbox into a grimbox.
#########
A gaggle of nerds talking about Fantasy, Science Fiction, and everything in-between. They also occasionally write reviews about said books.  2x Stabby Award-Nominated and home to the Stabby Award-Winning TBRCon.
In the city of Queen Mab, nothing is quite as it seems. Pariah, spy and Inquisitorial agent Alizebeth Bequin is all of these things and yet none of them. An enigma, even to herself, she is caught between Inquisitors Gregor Eisenhorn and Gideon Ravenor, former allies now enemies who are playing a shadow game against a mysterious and deadly foe. Coveted by the archenemy, pursued by the Inquisition, Bequin becomes embroiled in a dark plot of which she knows not her role or purpose. Helped by a disparate group of allies, she must unravel the secrets of her life and past if she is to survive a coming battle in which the line between friends and foes is fatally blurred.
PARIAH by Dan Abnett is the first book of the Bequin trilogy, which is the sequel to both the Eisenhorn and Ravenor series. If you&#8217;re not familiar with those, you don&#8217;t need to read them in order to appreciate the books but they strongly enhance the experience. The premise for the books is they are in the Warhammer 40K universe and follow the adventures of Inquisitor teams as they attempt to root out heresy in the grimdark future.
The premise is that Beta Bequin, who may or may not be related to Alizabeth Bequin from the Eisnehorn trilogy, is being trained as an inquisitor in the crumbling Hive City of Queen Mab. A female perspective is fairly rare in Warhammer 40K and Beta is a fascinating character that has both a mature and immature set of qualities. In many ways, she&#8217;s an intelligent and old soul but in others she&#8217;s painfully naive as well as judgemental. There&#8217;s a kind of 19th Victorian noblewoman quality to her that works surprisingly well in the Imperium.
Beta quickly finds things may not be as they appear because the school she attends is raided by what appears to be law enforcement despite the Inquisition being above such petty concerns. Beta is forced onto the streets of Queen Mab and doesn&#8217;t know who she can trust (hint: no one) or who is telling the truth (hint: no one). What follows is a coming of age story as she slowly develops the skills she needs to navigate the complicated politics and intrigues around her.
Dan Abnett does a wonderful job of establishing the character with a unique voice and unique attitude compared to all of his many burly men, sneaky Inquisitors, as well as noble officers. He gets to reintroduce most of his older characters from the previous two trilogies as well as show them utterly flabbergasted by a woman they continue to underestimate (including the women on the team).
The setting of Queen Mab is a delightfully original one that feels like it takes place in the future, past, and present simultaneously. There&#8217;s a Victorian air to the place but also a sense that the Hive World is crumbling at an extraordinarily slow pace. It gives you a sense of the Imperium&#8217;s immense age as well as how the fact it is a civilization on the decline. The world-building is tremendous.
The supporting cast of the book is tremendous. I love the character of Lightburn, who is a heretic that has been branded with &#8220;cursedom&#8221; that leaves him socially ostracized but in a unique position to serve as a mercenary to criminally minded citizens. I also appreciate the handling of the Ecclesiarchy in the setting, which is the Catholic Church equivalent of the Imperium.
In conclusion, Pariah is a fantastic book. It&#8217;s a great place to begin Warhammer 40K even though it is the 7th book in a series technically. Beta Bequin is a fantastic character and the city of Queen Mab is a fantastic character. We get to see a variety of weird and fantastic characters in a society that is full of decadent nobles, drugged-up artists, as well as impoverished peasants. Fun for the whole family.
Filed Under: Grimdark, Horror Fantasy, Occult, Reviews, Sci-Fi Fantasy Tagged With: Book Review, Fantasy, Grimdark, Horror, Occult, Space Opera, Warhammer 40k
C.T. Phipps is a reviewer of sci-fi, urban fantasy, and superheroes. He loves when all three of them verge into the world of horror but not completely that genre. C.T. is the author of the United States of Monsters, Futurepunk, Cthulhu Armageddon, Space Academy, and Supervillainy Saga series. He is probably not a vampire. Probably. If you want to know his favorite video games, they're Dragon Age, Fallout, Bloodlines, and Mass Effect.
#########
Today, we return to the Bequin Trilogy for the second book, Penintent.  It’s a book that I was greatly looking forward to.  While I will admit that the book we got didn’t quite live up to the expectations set by its predecessor, I do think it works both as a story on its own and as the middle entry of a trilogy.  It’s a novel that adapts to the changing nature of the story being told without losing its distinctive voice.
Throughout this review, there will be mild, unmarked spoilers for the events of Penitent.  I will keep the first paragraph of each section as spoiler-free as possible.  Heavy spoilers will be confined to clearly marked sections.
There will be heavy, unmarked spoilers throughout the review for the events of all the Inquisitor content we have previously reviewed thus far, including the Eisenhorn and Ravenor novels, their associated short stories, and Pariah.
The Alizebeth Bequin in the story is not the same woman from Eisenhorn’s novels.  This Bequin is her daughter (or, at least, a person engineered from the original Bequin’s genetic material).  Within the narrative itself, Abnett establishes distance between the two characters as early as Chapter 1, with Bequin operating by the “affectionate contraction” of “Beta”.  I’ll therefore be referring to this character as “Beta” throughout this review, while her mother will be referred to as “Alizebeth”.
This book is harder to place in the timeline than any of the other Abnett novels. There’s no explicit statement of the date within the text that I can recall, and unlike Pariah, this book doesn’t show up on the timeline within the Eisenhorn omnibus.  I can’t lock down a date with a great deal of certainty.
That said, it is acknowledged within the text that it’s only been a few months since the events of Pariah.  Furthermore, there’s a point where a character refers to an event from the previous book as happening “last year”.  I feel we can safely assume that this book is set in 501.M41.
Alizebeth Bequin's world has been turned upside-down. Now she must choose who she will follow as Inquisitors Eisenhorn and Ravenor battle to discover the secrets at the heart of Queen Mab.
The latest chapter in Dan Abnett's Inquisition saga is here, and it's packed with shocking twists and stunning revelations that will change the way you look at the Warhammer 40,000 universe forever.
In the mysterious city of Queen Mab, the forces of light and darkness are locked in a murderous struggle for truth. The dedicated agents of the Holy Inquisition battle with their shadowy counterparts, the infamous Cognitae, to discover the encrypted identity of the enigmatic, all-powerful King in Yellow. Caught at the heart of this struggle is the pariah Alizebeth Bequin. Will she stand with the Inquisition or with the Cognitae that raised her? And if she chooses the Inquisition, will it be the wise but ruthless Ravenor or his rival, the denounced heretic Eisenhorn? Bequin must withstand an onslaught of angels, daemons, and even the monstrous warriors of the Traitor Legions, to unpick the greatest riddle of her life.
The beloved characters of Eisenhorn and Ravenor return, as implaccable adversaries in a novel of esoteric mystery, macabre intrigue, and vivid action, where the revelation of true identity could mean death… or might shake the Imperium to its very foundations.
A big deal is made here about how the information Bequin uncovers is regarding an existential threat to the Imperium … but it’s that the status quo?  The Imperium of Man is always on the brink of extinction.  Every single one of Eisenhorn’s novels, as well as the second and third Ravenor novels, has addressed a threat on this scale.  I’m not saying that Abnett doesn’t put any effort into the story to earn this idea, but the effort he does make isn’t nearly enough to sell the idea that the threat that this time is the one that should truly scare us.
Aside from that, the emphasis put on Bequin unraveling her life and deciding the path to take is exaggerating.  She has a few minor moments of inner conflict through the text, but never to the extent that it’s truly an obstacle for her.  I’d actually argue that she has the opposite problem (and will do so when we analyze her character).
Beyond that, though, this premise is on the mark.  This is a story about multiple factions fighting each other to either gain access to (or prevent others from accessing) the Yellow King.  It’s a natural evolution upon elements established in the previous story.
On the whole, Penitent is still an engaging story of entwined mysteries told through a rich narrative voice.  It  has fleshed-out characters with understandable motivations and perspectives and worldbuilding that expands upon existing ideas while still feeling like a natural part of the Warhammer 40K mythos.  While Bequin is no longer tumbling about and struggling to keep her head above the water, there is still a sense of palpable struggle and danger as she attempts to navigate the complex clashes between different factions to achieve her objectives.
What holds this story back is this tangible sense that it’s having an identity crisis.  This is the middle entry of a planned trilogy.  There are many ways one can write such a story.  To name just a few.
It can serve as a middle chapter is a story that was fully planned (or, at least, set up to be) a three-part saga ((i.e. The Empire Strikes Back).  This often involves ending this middle ending on a Darkest Hour that the heroes will need to rise above in the finale.
It can take what was originally a standalone story (now the first installment) and introduce a conflict to be resolved in the third installment (i.e. The Matrix Reloaded).  Again, there may be a Darkest Hour ending.
It can be a standalone sequel, telling its own narrative, with the designation of “trilogy” coming from a third story that either ties a nice bow on things or simply ends up being the last story made (i.e. Ocean’s Twelve).
The problem is that Penitent reads like it is trying to be all three at the same time.  I don’t know if this is directly linked to the writer’s block that Abnett reportedly suffered from while writing it, a result of him taking so long to write it, or him trying to write a satisfying ending in case Games Workshop kills this trilogy entirely (remember, the company has put the series on hold).  Whatever the reason, it feels like this story doesn’t entirely know what it wants to be.  It feels like way too much is crammed into it and getting resolve at the same time.
I do still think this is a great book.  If you enjoyed Pariah, you will probably enjoy this one.  Just don’t be surprised if you end up feeling a bit confused at parts.
This story has the usual Abnett Warhammer 40K fare: violence, innocent people dying, gore and scary imagery.  There’s some suggestive description that teases the audience with female nudity and an Astartes who is naked in nearly every scene he’s in (I will explain his deal later).  As usual for Abnett, none of this feels excessive, crass, or immature.  He keeps things matter-of-fact unless it serves the tone and then applies these elements only to the extent necessary to achieve his goals.
My thoughts about this aspect of the narrative are virtually identical to my thoughts from Pariah.  Beta’s narrative voice provides an experience that is distinct from either Eisenhorn or Ravenor.  She paints Queen Mab in terms that makes it sound more like a sprawling Renaissance city than an Imperium hive; the Science Fiction aesthetic of Warhammer 40K is transformed into something that feels right out of a Dark Fantasy.  The handling of descriptive prose gives scenes a richness that makes them more engaging than they otherwise would be.  My only major complaint about the prose is that, at some points, the dialogue gets a bit convoluted, but it never gets so far out of hand as to make the passages of dialogue illegible, and it does at least make sense in terms of Beta regurgitating information as she would remember it.
Next Friday, July 24th, we’ll properly dive into the analysis of Penitent with an assessment of the plot.  While I think that the story of Penitent is good overall, it is also the source of most of this book’s problems.  Abnett just tried to do too much, and the result was a narrative that didn’t have nearly as much punch as it could have.
Thanks for stopping by today.  Please remember to subscribe and share if you enjoyed what you read here.  Take care, everyone, and have a good weekend.
#########
